Code Policy | Open science | Springer Nature Search Search EN CN (Chinese) DE (German) ES (Spanish) FR (Français) JP (Japanese) Open science Home Products Open science What we do Policies Librarians Research & Development Authors Editors Peer Reviewers Book Reviewers Booksellers Societies Partners, Affiliates & Rights Shop Contact Help and support ↗ ------- Careers ↗ Investors ↗ Media ↗ Corporate Site ↗ About open science Fundamentals of open science Gold or green routes to open science Glossary of terms Benefits of open science Open science timeline White papers Contact us About overview OA journals & books Journals Journal pricing FAQs Books Publishing an OA book Journals & books overview Funding & support OA article funding Article OA funding and policy guidance OA book funding Book OA funding and policy guidance Funding & support overview Open access agreements Data Open access policies Springer Nature journal policies APC waivers and discounts Springer Nature book policies Publication policies overview Open science Our Code Policy At Springer Nature we advance discovery by publishing trusted research, supporting the development of new ideas and championing open science. We also aim to facilitate compliance with research funder and institution requirements to share data and code. To help accomplish this we have established a standard research code policy for our journals and books, based on transparency and public sharing of newly developed code. This policy applies to all new computer programming code, software programs, macros etc that are developed as part of the research, and are necessary to interpret and replicate the conclusions reported in a research article, chapter or book. For Books We strongly encourage that all code used to generate results or support claims for primary research covered in the book/chapter (e.g. computer programming code, software programs, macros, etc.) are made publicly available at the time of publication. We encourage authors to deposit their supporting code in publicly available repositories. For Journals We require a Code Availability Statement in all original research articles for which new code is developed that is necessary to interpret and replicate the conclusions reported. Code availability statements should include information on what code is available, where these can be found, and any applicable access terms. See examples of Code Availability Statements in two of our Nature Portfolio journals here and here . We strongly encourage all new code that is necessary to interpret and replicate the conclusions to be made publicly available at the time of publication, and some journals may mandate sharing of the code during peer review. We encourage authors to deposit their newly-developed code in publicly available repositories, or failing this within the manuscript or additional supporting files. Code should be deposited in a repository that assigns a permanent identifier, such as Code Ocean or Zenodo , and cited in the reference list. Note that providing a GitHub link only is not sufficient as it does not assign a permanent identifier to the code. Authors are encouraged to manage subsequent code versions and to use a license approved by the open source initiative. A submission to a Springer Nature journal implies that all relevant new code will be made freely available to any researcher wishing to use them, without breaching participant confidentiality. Peer reviewers are entitled to request access to underlying code when needed to perform their evaluation of a manuscript. Some journals (such as the Nature journals, listed here ) require the submission of code for peer review. We recognise it is not always possible to share research code publicly, for instance when it requires simultaneous sharing of data in which the privacy of research participants could be compromised, and in such instances code availability should still be stated in the manuscript along with any conditions for access. A large number of our journals already support this policy, including Nature Portfolio, BMC and many Springer and Palgrave titles. We are in the process of implementing this policy across the remainder of our portfolio in stages. For information on a journal’s specific policies, please consult the journal submission guidelines. Ready to publish? A pioneer of open access publishing, BMC is committed to innovation and offers an evolving portfolio of some 300 journals. Got a discovery you're ready to share with the world? Publish your findings quickly and with integrity, never letting good research go to waste. Open research is at the heart of Nature Research. Our portfolio includes Nature Communications , Scientific Reports and many more. Springer offers a variety of open access options for journal articles and books across a number of disciplines. Palgrave Macmillan is committed to developing sustainable models of open access for the HSS disciplines. Apress is dedicated to meeting the information needs of developers, IT professionals, and tech communities worldwide. With a focus on being rapid, inclusive, and affordable, Cureus Journals deliver innovative publishing that removes barriers and keeps research connected worldwide. Atlantis Press is dedicated to open access conference proceedings publications, across a wide range of disciplines including science, technology, medicine (STM), humanities and social sciences (HSS), and business and economics. Products Journals Books Platforms Databases Researchers & Partners Authors Editors Open science Societies Partners, Affiliates & Rights Policies Librarians Overview Products Licensing Tools & Services Account Development Blog Sales and account contacts Our company Overview About us Careers Education Professional Media Centre Locations & Contact Help and support ↗ Contact Shop About us We are a world leading research, educational and professional publisher. Visit our main website for more information. Corporate site ↗ _ _ small_youtube © 2026 Springer Nature General terms and conditions Privacy Your US State Privacy Rights Your Privacy Choices / Manage Cookies Accessibility Legal notice Help us to improve this site, send feedback.
